# Kedarnath | Char Dham
One of the most hallowed tabernacle destinations of India, Kedarnath city is nestled in the potent Garhwal Himalayas. The city, erected around the deified Kedarnath tabernacle, is located at an altitude of,580 m, near Chorabari glacier, which is the source of the Mandakini swash. devoted to Lord Shiva, the ancient tabernacle has exquisite armature and is erected of extremely large but unevenly shaped slate gravestone crossbeams. A conical gemstone conformation inside the tabernacle is worshipped as Lord Shiva in his “ Sadashiva ” form. The Kedarnath tabernacle, devoted to Lord Shiva, is a part of Char Dham passage circuit, and is one of the 12 Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva in India. Behind the Kedarnath tabernacle, stand the Kedarnath peak, Kedar Dome and other Himalayan peaks. Book <a href="https://www.manchalamushafir.com/tour/kedarnath-yatra/" target="_blank">kedarnath yatra package</a> .

The literal name of this region is" Kedar Khand" and legend says, the Pandavas from the grand Mahabharata, after having defeated the Kauravas, felt shamefaced of having killed so numerous people and sought the blessings of Lord Shiva for redemption. The Lord escaped them constantly and took retreat at Kedarnath in the form of a bull. The Lord dived into the ground, leaving his hump on the face at Kedarnath. The remaining portions of Lord Shiva appeared at four other places and are worshipped there as his instantiations. The arms of the Lord appeared at Tungnath, the face at Rudranath, the belly at Madmaheshwar and his cinches( hair) at Kalpeshwar. The Kedarnath and four above mentioned sanctuaries make the deified Panch Kedar passage circuit.

The hard trip till the great sanctum of Shiva is well compensated with the spiritual atmosphere which is created by the unworried, tranquil and splendid beauty of the region. The majestic Kedarnath peak(1,940 measures) stands behind the tabernacle along with other peaks, forming a perfect setting for the holy land of the supreme deity. The conical-structured Shiva lingam in the Kedarnath tabernacle is a unique point of the tabernacle among all Shiva sanctuaries, experience the <a href="https://www.manchalamushafir.com/tour/kedarnath-yatra/" target="_blank">kedarnath yatra</a> once in a life. 

Burdened with the guilt of killing their blood cousins, Pandavas sought Lord Shiva to vindicate themselves of their sins. Shiva did not want to release them from their wrongdoings so fluently and disguised himself as a bull to bat in Garhwal Himalayas. On being discovered by Pandavas, Shiva dived into the ground. Bhim tried to catch him and could only get hold of the hump. Other body corridor of Shiva( in the form of bull), came up at different places. Hump of the bull was set up in Kedarnath, nexus surfaced at Madhya- Maheshwar, two legs appeared at Tunganath, face in Rudranath, and hair came up at Kalpeshwar. Together these five sacred places are called Panch Kedar. It's believed that firstly Pandavas erected the tabernacle of Kedarnath; the present tabernacle was established by Adi Shankaracharya who restored and revived the glory of the sanctum. 

 


